Added solving sudoku using backtracking sudoku snippet (#18)
Developer-Students-Club-MAIT/cool_code_snippets: challenges/Sudoku-BackTracking.md

# Solving a Sudoku puzzle using backtracking

## What is Backtracking?
Backtracking is an algorithmic-technique for solving problems recursively by trying to build a solution incrementally, one piece at a time, removing those solutions that fail to satisfy the constraints of the problem at any point of time (by time, here, is referred to the time elapsed till reaching any level of the search tree).
More [here](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/backtracking-introduction/).

## How does this help in solving sudoku?
The algorithm tries the first valid number it can put in the first empty square it finds on the grid. After this it recursively calls the function and it tries the first valid number on the next empty square.
If we encounter an empty square where no number is valid then the algorithm goes back to the previous recursive state, finds the next valid number in the previous step and builds upon that number.
This might not seem intuitive at the first go but you could find an amazing visualisation video on the topic [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_vWRZiDUGHU).

> ## C++ Code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Code
```

Author: I think keeping C++ here would make more sense since the code uses C/C++ syntax. I could make it C/C++ code though.

Reviewer: Oh right cause you've added this in challenges folder. Then we should probably add c++/cpp in the name of the file instead of here.

Author: The file's name is already too big. Are you sure you want to add C/C++ in the file itself?

Reviewer: I think it's not that big. You can add c++ or cpp.

> ### NOTE: I will be only giving snippets of the core functions required for proper functioning of the algorithm. Also, in our sudoku grid, a '0' digit means an empty space.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### NOTE: Only the snippets of the core functions required for proper functioning of the algorithm are added. Also, in our sudoku grid, a '0' digit means an empty space.
```

      { 
        sudoku[row][col] = num;
        
        // heart of the algorithm. 
        // recursive call to solvemain.
        // if the sudoku is completed then the last function will return true 
        // from the FIRST if condition itself.
        // hence the sudoku will be completed and we can return true.
        if (solvemain(sudoku))
			return true;
          
        // however if for some reason there comes a point when there is no valid
        // number for a given empty square,at that point this else condition will 
        // run and the function will finally return false.
        // This will lead to 'popping' of all stacks in which our sudoku has been
        // wrongly solved and the puzzle is essentially back to the point on which
        // the next empty square has no valid numbers.
        else
			sudoku[row][col] = 0;
      }
  }
  
  return false;
}
```

## Driver Code Snippet
```cpp
int sudoku[9][9] = {{0,6,4,0,3,0,0,0,0}, {0,0,0,1,0,0,0,0,0},{3,0,5,0,8,0,0,0,2},{0,0,0,0,0,8,0,7,0},{7,5,0,6,0,2,4,0,0},{0,0,0,0,0,0,0,1,8},{0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0},{0,0,2,7,0,0,0,0,9},{1,0,3,0,0,4,0,6,0}};
    if (solvemain(sudoku))  

>         print_sudoku_grrid(sudoku); // any arbitary function which prints the sudoku

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        print_sudoku_grid(sudoku); // any arbitary function which prints the sudoku
```

    else
       printf( "No solution exists");

> ```

Reviewer: I think adding an output block for the driver code snippet you added will be great!

# Solving a Sudoku puzzle using backtracking

## What is Backtracking?
Backtracking is an algorithmic-technique for solving problems recursively by trying to build a solution incrementally, one piece at a time, removing those solutions that fail to satisfy the constraints of the problem at any point of time (by time, here, is referred to the time elapsed till reaching any level of the search tree).
More [here](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/backtracking-introduction/).

## How does this help in solving sudoku?
The algorithm tries the first valid number it can put in the first empty square it finds on the grid. After this it recursively calls the function and it tries the first valid number on the next empty square.
If we encounter an empty square where no number is valid then the algorithm goes back to the previous recursive state, finds the next valid number in the previous step and builds upon that number.
This might not seem intuitive at the first go but you could find an amazing visualisation video on the topic [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_vWRZiDUGHU).

## C++ Code

> ### NOTE: Only the snippets of the core functions required for proper functioning of the algorithm have been added. Also, in our sudoku grid, a '0' digit means an empty space.

Reviewer 2: No need to give this note

```cpp
// declared as global variables for proper functioning
int row;
int col;

bool findblank (int sudoku[9][9], int &row, int &col) //returns true if there is an unassigned value in grid
{
  // this function takes in a sudoku grid as an arguement 
  // and returns true if there exist an empty space in our grid.
  

>   //declare row and col as global variables initially for proper functionality

Reviewer 2: You have already mentioned this at the start so no need to call it again

  for (row = 0 ; row < 9; row++)
  {
    for (col = 0 ; col < 9; col++)
    {
      if (sudoku[row][col] == 0)
      {
        return true;
      }
    }
  }
  
  return false;
}

bool checknum (int sudoku[9][9], int row, int col, int num)
{
  // function to check whether a given number is valid in the given row and column
  
  // iterates over all rows and reuturns false if the number already exist in the column.
  for (int i = 0; i < 9; i++)
  {
    if (sudoku[i][col] == num)
      return false;
  }
  
  // iterates over all columns and reuturns false if the number already exist in the row.
  for (int i = 0; i < 9; i++)
  {
    if (sudoku[row][i] == num)
      return false;
  }
  
  // checks the 3*3 box in which the number is to be placed
  for (int i = row - row%3; i < row - row%3 + 3; i++)
  {
    for (int j = col - col%3; j < col - col%3 + 3; j++)
    {   
        if (sudoku[i][j] == num)
          return false;
    }
  }
  
  // return false directly if the square is pre-occupied
  if (sudoku[row][col] != 0)
    return false;
  
  return true;
}

bool solvemain (int sudoku[9][9])
{
  // main function where backtracking algorithm has been implemented.

>   // if there is no empty square then the puzzle is solved hence return true.

Reviewer 2: Merge all these comments as one doc string

  // however if there is an empty square then the values of the global variables 
  // row and column would have changed accordingly hence we make use of them
  // in the following for-loop.
  if (!findblank(sudoku, row, col)) // FIRST if condition
    return true;
  
  // iterates over all the numbers and uses the modified values of row, col to 
  // check whether the given number is valid in that position or not.
  for (int num = 1; num < 10; num++)
  {
      // if the given number is valid then assign the number to that empty square
      if (checknum (sudoku,row,col,num))
      { 
        sudoku[row][col] = num;
        

>         // heart of the algorithm. 

Reviewer 2: Merge all these comments as one doc string

        // recursive call to solvemain.
        // if the sudoku is completed then the last function will return true 
        // from the FIRST if condition itself.
        // hence the sudoku will be completed and we can return true.
        if (solvemain(sudoku))
			return true;
          

>         // however if for some reason there comes a point when there is no valid

Reviewer 2: Merge all these comments as one doc string

Author: Could you please elaborate? I'm not able to understand.

Reviewer: @kaustubhgupta do you mean change the single line comments into multi-line comments?

Reviewer 2: Yes, because currently is very messy

        // number for a given empty square,at that point this else condition will 
        // run and the function will finally return false.
        // This will lead to 'popping' of all stacks in which our sudoku has been
        // wrongly solved and the puzzle is essentially back to the point on which
        // the next empty square has no valid numbers.
        else
			sudoku[row][col] = 0;
      }
  }
  
  return false;
}
```

## Driver Code Snippet
```cpp
int sudoku[9][9] = {{0,6,4,0,3,0,0,0,0}, {0,0,0,1,0,0,0,0,0},{3,0,5,0,8,0,0,0,2},{0,0,0,0,0,8,0,7,0},{7,5,0,6,0,2,4,0,0},{0,0,0,0,0,0,0,1,8},{0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0},{0,0,2,7,0,0,0,0,9},{1,0,3,0,0,4,0,6,0}};
    if (solvemain(sudoku))  

>         print_sudoku_grid(sudoku); // any arbitary function which prints the sudoku

Reviewer 2: You can remove the comment here, it's not required
